# CompagniaAereaJava

## 1. Project Overview
This project is a java application made with netbeans inside the IIS Galileo Galilei Crema. its purpose is to create an app that allows you to manage an airline (as an example I used ItaAirways, but this project is not associated in any way with the real company).
To import the project open netbeans, select file -> import project -> import from zip -> select de zip downloaded from the RELEASE -> press import.

## 2. Login and Registration
### 2.1 Login
the login page serves to authenticate users already registered on the page. there is a "master" user who has access to all the features of the program, and to an additional feature which we will see later. 
<br>
Default master username: <b> master </b> 
<br>
Default master password: <b>master </b> 
<br>
you can change this data by editing it inside the "utenti.txt" file inside the main directory of the program

### 2.2 Registration
registration is more complex than simple login, to register you must enter the following data:
- First name
- Surname
- Email (important)
- Username (to be chosen)
- Account type
- Password & confirm password (choose)
<br>
after entering all this data and pressing register you will receive an email with the verification code to insert into the program
once the email verification has been completed, your data will be written into the "utenti.txt" file. at this point you will be returned to the login page where you can use the data you just registered.
<br><br>
<b> N.B To create an admin or pilot account you need to know the master password before verifying the email </b>

## 3. Dashboard
the dashboard is a page from which you can choose the mode you prefer to use. there are three types of Dashboards: Admin, User and Pilot. Each account has its own dashboard*
<br>
*except the master user who can use them all
### 3.1 Admin Dashboard
The Admin Dashboard allows admin users to access 6 functions. at the top there is the wifi icon (only works on mac os) and today's date.
the functions are:
- Flight Manager
- Passenger Manager
- Radio
- Radar
- Aircraft Manager
- Acars

### 3.2 User Dashboard
The User Dashboard allows passenger users to access 4 functions. at the top there is the wifi icon (only works on mac os) and today's date.
the functions are:
- Ticket Boarding
- Ticket Cancellation
- Menu
- Book (Prenota)

### 3.3 Pilot Dashboard
The Pilot Dashboard allows pilot users to access 4 functions. at the top there is the wifi icon (only works on mac os) and today's date.
the functions are:
- Schedule
- Hollidays (ferie)
- Stamp (timbra)
- Fly

## 4. Admin functions
### 4.1 Flight Manager
the flight manager is a page where you can add, search, edit and delete flights. All flights are saved in the "voli.txt" file. every time the function is opened the program automatically reads the entire file and loads the flights in the table to make them viewable for the user
#### 4.1.1 Adding a flight
To add a flight you must enter:
- Flight code
- departure airport (ICAO code)
- arrival airport (ICAO code)
- Takeoff slot
- Airplane (choice between Boeing 737/787 and Airbus A320/A380)
<br>
Once all the fields have been filled in and the add button has been pressed, the flight will be added to the table and written to the "Flights.txt" file.

#### 4.1.2 Searching a flight
to search for a flight you need to know its flight code, the program will scan the entire table automatically and return the flight data if present, otherwise it returns an error message

#### 4.1.3 Cancelling a flight
to delete a flight simply select it in the table and press the delete button, the program will automatically delete it both from the table and from the "voli.txt" file

#### 4.1.4 Editing a flight
to modify a flight you must select it from the table and press the modify button. the program will delete it from the table/file and insert the data into the text cells for modification, once the modification is finished the flight must be added again as in point 1.4.1


### 4.2 Passenger Manager
the passenger manager is similar to the flight manager, it allows you to see all the passengers on a flight knowing their flight code.
compared to the flight manager, passengers are not loaded automatically when opened because each flight has its own file with passengers, automatically generated by the Flight Manager*.
compared to the flight manager, the passenger manager does not allow you to add passengers who are added by the passenger book function**.

*in version 1.0 these files are added manually, basically only flight 123 is present with the "123.txt" file
<br>
**due to lack of time these files must be modified manually in the version 1.0


### 4.3 Radio
the radio function is used to list the frequencies of the radio stations of an airport, you can select them from a drop-down menu or manually write the ICAO code.
the frequencies listed are:
- Ground
-Tower
- Approach
- Departure
- ATIS (automatic weather message)
- EN-ROUTE


### 4.4 Radar
NOT IMPLEMENTED


### 4.5 Aircraft Manager
the aircraft manager is used to buy, register and sell the aircraft owned by the company.
When buying a plane, the serial number must also be entered (possible upgrade: have it generated automatically). in addition to the serial number based on the selected aircraft, the maximum quantity of fuel at take-off is also added.
once purchased it is added to the table and written to the "aircraft.txt" file


### 4.6 ACARS
NOT IMPLEMENTED


## 5. Passenger Functions

### 5.1 Ticket Boarding
ticket boarding is used to board passengers: upon opening you are asked for the booking number and flight number. The program automatically searches for the data that is filled in on the page. once data has been loaded you can press embark. at this point the program randomly generates the gate number between 1 and 4 and prints it on the screen.

### 5.2 Ticket Cancellation 
the ticket cancellation function is used to eliminate the reservation, the operation is similar to ticket boarding, but instead of generating the gate it eliminates the data from the corresponding files.

### 5.3 Book (Prenota) 
the book function is used to book the desired flight, the user is asked for data such as name, surname, email... once all the data has been entered, the ticket with the barcode will be generated and an email will be sent with the data provided and as an attachment the pdf of the ticket.

### 5.4 Menu
NOT IMPLEMENTED

## 6 Pilot Functions
### 6.1 Schedule
NOT IMPLEMENTED
### 6.2 Hollidays (Ferie)
NOT IMPLEMENTED
### 6.3 STAMP (Timbra)
NOT IMPLEMENTED
### 6.4 FLY 
the fly function is the most complex of the entire program, its function is to simulate flight. the panels present are:
- Primary Flight Display
- Autopilot Control Panel
- Radio Panel
- Engine Panel
- Landing Gear
- Flap & Slat

#### 6.4.1 Primary Flight Display 
this section is used to see the status of the flight with various instruments such as the anemometer (speed in knots), altimeter (altitude in feet) variometer (number of feet per minute ascending/descent)*, the artificial horizon which indicates the current aircraft attitude, compass orientation and the FMA (Flight Mode Anounciator) which indicates the automatic systems currently in use by the aircraft such as which autopilot is connected, the vertical climb mode (ALT, ALTHLD, V/S) or the navigation modes (LNAV, VOR/LOC, APP).

#### 6.4.2 Autopilot Control Panel
in this section there are all the autopilot settings, starting from the autothrottle which automatically controls the power of the engines, protecting against stalling, a little further to the right we find the navigation modes:
- LNAV: currently just an icon that does nothing actual
- VOR/LOC: allows you to orbit around a VOR (VHF Omnidirectional Range), in the simulator it sets the artificial horizon in tack mode and cyclically increases the compass indicator.
- APP is used to brake once landed (possible upgrade: add ILS icons on the Primary Flight Display).
<br>
then we find the altitude selector to maintain with the button for the ALT/HLD mode (ALTitude HoLD) underneath which takes the current altitude, sets it as the objective and maintains it.
immediately next to it we find the selector for the V/S (Vertical Speed) mode which tells the aircraft to climb or descend at a certain pre-set speed (Example: 100 feet per minute).
N.B. the altitude and V/S modes cannot be active at the same time, the V/S mode becomes available only after an altitude of 100 feet.
the last part concerns the actual activation of the autopilot (there are 3 for redundancy) and the deactivation button.

#### 6.4.3 Radio Panel
the Radio Panel is used to choose the radio frequency with which to communicate, there are two text slots: the one on the left is not editable and contains the active frequency, while the one on the right contains the standby frequency which is editable. there is a button to exchange them and various buttons to select the transmission mode (VHF 1,2,3, HF 1,2 and AM).

#### 6.4.4 Engine Panel
the Engine panel is a panel that is used to manage the engines: there are the master switches that are used to start the engines (to start/switch off the engines it is necessary to turn on the APU first), the rpm and temperature indicators are also present of exhaust gases and the control panel which allows you to control the power of the engines:
- TOGA: acronym for TakeOfGoAround is the maximum possible power
- CLB: it is the power used during the climb which is approximately 80% of the maximum
- FLP (flap): it is the power at which the speed suitable for extending the flaps for landing is reached
- LND: landing power: without flaps at this power the aircraft stalls
- IDLE: minimum power
- REV (reverse): thrust reversers for braking.

#### 6.4.5 Landing Gear
it simply contains the landing gear control

#### 6.4.6
contains flap controls at various degrees up to a maximum of 40 used for landing and control of the spoilers used for braking, in arm mode the spoilers open automatically as soon as you touch the ground.

## 7. Secret Funcion
this secret function is the account manager which allows you to manage the users registered on the site, it is accessible only using the master user (in the menu for choosing the account to simulate in the exclusive functions box)
